.\"-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" This file is part of Code_Saturne, a general-purpose CFD tool.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2020 EDF S.A.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
.\" version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\" details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
.\" this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
.\" Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\"-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.TH CODE_SATURNE 1 2013-07-15 "" "Code_Saturne commands"
.SH NAME
code_saturne \- Main user script of Code_Saturne.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B code_saturne
.RI [-h|--help]
.RI <command>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B code_saturne
script is the main user script of Code_Saturne.
.\"
.\" Options description
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "-h, --help"
Help message.
.\"
.\" Commands description
.SH COMMANDS
Further information will be obtained with
.B "code_saturne <command> --help"
.B
.IP "studymanager"
The
.B "code_saturne studymanager"
command can be used to run an autovalidation series of runs
defined by an xml file (see specific autovalidation documentation).

.B
.IP "compile"
The
.B "code_saturne compile"
command can be used to generate the
.B cs_solver
executable needed for running a Code_Saturne study.

.B
.IP "config"
The
.B "code_saturne config"
command provides information about the Code_Saturne build and installation.

.B
.IP "create"
The
.B "code_saturne create"
command sets up a directory structure for a Code_Saturne study or
case. The different directories created are MESH for meshes, POST for
user post-processing and a case directory (or several) containing a
DATA, SRC (to store user files), RESU (to store results) and SCRIPTS
directory.

.B
.IP "gui"
The
.B "code_saturne gui"
command starts the Code_Saturne gui.

.B
.IP "info"
The
.B "code_saturne info"
command is a wrapper for an easier look at Code_Saturne documentation.

.B
.IP "run"
The
.B "code_saturne run"
starts a Code_Saturne case's preprocessing or computation execution.

.B
.IP "salome"
The
.B "code_saturne salome"
command starts SALOME, with the CFDSTUDY module enabled
(assuming Code_Saturne is built with SALOME support).

.\"
.\" Environment variables
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables may affect
.B code_saturne run :
.TP 3
.B CS_MPIEXEC_OPTIONS
This variable allows defining extra arguments to be passed to
the MPI execution command when applicable.
If this option is defined, it will have priority over the value defined in
global or local
.B code_saturne.cfg
files (or by computed defaults), so if necessary, it is possible to define a
setting specific to a given run using this variable.
.TP
.B CS_SCRATCHDIR
Allows defining the execution directory, overriding the default path or
settings from the global or local
.B code_saturne.cfg
files.
.\"
.\" References
.SH SEE ALSO
The full documentation for Code_Saturne is accessible using the
.B code_saturne info
command.
