.\"
.\"  This file is part of the Code_Saturne Kernel, element of the
.\"  Code_Saturne CFD tool.
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2009 EDF S.A., France
.\"
.\"  contact: saturne-support@edf.fr
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is free software; you can redistribute it
.\"  and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\"  the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is distributed in the hope that it will be
.\"  useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
.\"  of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with the Code_Saturne Preprocessor; if not, write to the
.\"  Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"  51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
.\"  Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH CS_CHECK_CONSISTENCY 1 2009-03-15 "" "Code_Saturne commands"
.SH NAME
cs_check_consistency \- Check the consistency of Code_Saturne input data
(user files, Xml file from the gui).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs_check_consistency
[-dir <wdir>]
[-param <param.xml>]
[-nproc <n_procs>]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cs_check_consistency
script checks the consistency between the user files and the Xml file
(from the Graphical User Interface) provided by the user and, if
needed, that the chosen options are compatible with parallel
calculations. Lastly, it prints the chosen specific physics.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP -dir
To specify the directory where the user files are.
.B
.IP -param
To specify the name of the Xml file written by the Graphical User
Interface.
.B
.IP -nproc
To specify the number of processors used by the solver.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cs_check_mesh (1),
.BR cs_create (1)
