.\"
.\"  This file is part of the Code_Saturne Kernel, element of the
.\"  Code_Saturne CFD tool.
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2009 EDF S.A., France
.\"
.\"  contact: saturne-support@edf.fr
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is free software; you can redistribute it
.\"  and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\"  the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is distributed in the hope that it will be
.\"  useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
.\"  of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with the Code_Saturne Preprocessor; if not, write to the
.\"  Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"  51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
.\"  Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH CS_COMPILE 1 2009-03-15 "" "Code_Saturne commands"
.SH NAME
cs_compile \- Code_Saturne wrapper for user files compilation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs_compile
.RI [--test]
.RI [--source=<src_dir>]
.RI [--dest=<dest_dir>]
.RI [--opt-libs=<libs>]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cs_compile
script can be used to generate the
.B cs_solver
executable needed for running a Code_Saturne study.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "-t, --test"
Test only, discard compilation result.
.B
.IP "--source"
Choose source file directory.
.B
.IP "--dest"
Choose executable file directory.
.B
.IP "-h, --help"
Print a usage message and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cs_create (1),
.BR cs_solver (1)
