.\"
.\"  This file is part of the Code_Saturne Kernel, element of the
.\"  Code_Saturne CFD tool.
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2009 EDF S.A., France
.\"
.\"  contact: saturne-support@edf.fr
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is free software; you can redistribute it
.\"  and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\"  the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is distributed in the hope that it will be
.\"  useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
.\"  of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with the Code_Saturne Kernel; if not, write to the
.\"  Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"  51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
.\"  Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH CS_CREATE 1 2009-03-15 "" "Code_Saturne commands"
.SH NAME
cs_create \- Generate a Code_Saturne study/case.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs_create
.RI [--nogui]
.RI [--study
.RI <study_name>
.RI <case_name>]
.RI [--case
.RI <case_name>]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cs_create
script sets up a directory structure for a Code_Saturne study or
case. The different directories created are MESH for meshes, POST for
user post-processing and a case directory (or several) containing a
DATA, SRC (to store user files), RESU (to store results) and SCRIPTS
directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "-s, --study"
To specify the name of the study when creating a full study.
.B
.IP "-c, --case"
To specify the name(s) of the case(s) when created in an existing
study.
.B
.IP "-n, --nogui"
To force non use of the Graphical User Interface. This option has to
be used only once at the beginning or at the end of the option list.
.B
.IP -h
Print a usage message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLE
cs_create --study study_name
.P
cs_create --study study_name case_name_1 case_name_2
.P
cs_create --case case_name_1 case_name2
.P
cs_create --nogui --case case_name_1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cs_check_consistency (1),
.BR cs_check_mesh (1)
