.\"
.\"  This file is part of the Code_Saturne Kernel, element of the
.\"  Code_Saturne CFD tool.
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2009 EDF S.A., France
.\"
.\"  contact: saturne-support@edf.fr
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is free software; you can redistribute it
.\"  and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\"  the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is distributed in the hope that it will be
.\"  useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
.\"  of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with the Code_Saturne Preprocessor; if not, write to the
.\"  Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"  51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
.\"  Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH CS_INFO 1 2009-03-15 "" "Code_Saturne commands"
.SH NAME
cs_info \- Wrapper for Code_Saturne documentation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs_info
.RI <topic>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cs_info
script is a wrapper for an easier look at Code_Saturne documentation.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP version
Print Code_Saturne version (preprocessor, kernel, interface).
.B
.IP user
Open the user manual.
.B
.IP theory
Open the theory manual.
.B
.IP theory
Open the tutorial manual.
.B
.IP ecs_user
Open the user and theory manual for the Preprocessor module.
.B
.IP cs
Usage for the Kernel module.
.B
.IP ecs
Usage for the Preprocessor module.
.B
.IP -h
Print a usage message and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cs_check_consistency (1),
.BR cs_check_mesh (1),
.BR cs_create (1),
.BR cs_plot_probes (1),
.BR ecs (1)
