.\"
.\"  This file is part of the Code_Saturne Kernel, element of the
.\"  Code_Saturne CFD tool.
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2009 EDF S.A., France
.\"
.\"  contact: saturne-support@edf.fr
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is free software; you can redistribute it
.\"  and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\"  the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is distributed in the hope that it will be
.\"  useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
.\"  of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with the Code_Saturne Kernel; if not, write to the
.\"  Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"  51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
.\"  Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH CS_PARTITION 1 2009-09-14 "" "Code_Saturne commands"
.SH NAME
cs_partition \- Compute domain partition(s) of Code_Saturne preprocessor output.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs_partition
.RI <n_ranks> [<n_ranks_2> ... <n_ranks_n>]
.RI [options]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cs_partition
program takes the file named
.B preprocessor_output
created by the Code_Saturne preprocessor.
.B cs_preprocess
and builds one or several "cells \-> domain" association files, named
.B domain_number_p
by using a graph splitting if linked with a METIS or SCOTCH library.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP --log
Output redirection for rank -1 or 0. Differents possibilities are: 0
for standard output and 1 for output in
.B partition.log
(default)
.B
.IP --logp
Output redirection for rank > 0. Differents possibilities are: -1 to
remove output (default), 0 for no redirection (if independant
terminal, debugger type) and 1 for output in
.B partition.log_<rank>
.B
.IP "--mpi"
Use MPI for parallelism.
.B
.IP --metis
Use METIS for partitioning (default if available).
.B
.IP --scotch
Use SCOTCH for partitioning.
.B
.IP --no-perio
Ignore periodicity information if present.
.B
.IP --no-write
Do not write output.
.B
.IP -h
Print a usage message and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP CS_MEM_LOG
Name of memory operations trace file.
.SH EXAMPLE
cs_partition 32 64 -no-write
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cs_io_dump (1),
.BR cs_preprocess (1)
.BR cs_solver (1)

