.\"
.\"  This file is part of the Code_Saturne Kernel, element of the
.\"  Code_Saturne CFD tool.
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2009 EDF S.A., France
.\"
.\"  contact: saturne-support@edf.fr
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is free software; you can redistribute it
.\"  and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\"  as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\"  the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  The Code_Saturne Kernel is distributed in the hope that it will be
.\"  useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
.\"  of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with the Code_Saturne Kernel; if not, write to the
.\"  Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\"  51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
.\"  Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH CS_SOLVER 1 2009-03-20 "" "Code_Saturne commands"
.SH NAME
cs_solver \- Main program of Code_Saturne.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs_solver
.R [options]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cs_solver
program is the main part of Code_Saturne. It solves the Navier-Stokes
equations, on a mesh given by the
.B preprocessor_output
created by the Code_Saturne preprocessor.
.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP -solcom
Stand-alone kernel with "geomet" mesh in SolCom format (obsolete).
.B
.IP "-mpi, --mpi [appnum]"
Use MPI for parallelism or coupling. In case of code coupling,
.B appnum
gives the number of this application (default: 0).
.B
.IP "-q, --quality"
Mesh quality verification mode.
.B
.IP "-cwf <criterion> [-post]"
Cut warped faces. Set the
.B  post
option to activate the post-processing related to the cutting of
warped faces.
.B
.IP "--benchmark [--mpitrace]"
Elementary operations performance. If the
.B mpitrace
option is set, operations are done only once for light MPI traces.
.B
.IP --log
Output redirection for rank -1 or 0. Differents possibilities are: 0
for standard output and 1 for output in
.B listing
(default)
.B
.IP --logp
Output redirection for rank > 0. Differents possibilities are: -1 to
remove output (default), 0 for no redirection (if independant
terminal, debugger type) and 1 for output in
.B listing_n<rank>
.B
.IP "-p, --param <file_name>"
Parameter file.
.B
.IP --version
Print version number.
.B
.IP "-h, --help"
Print a usage message and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP CS_FIC_MEM
Name of memory operations trace file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cs_create (1),
.BR ecs (1)

